Junior, we signed our contract for the Army being commissioned when we graduated, and that was also $50 a month.
Between that and a little bit of allowance and a few other things, I had $150 or $200 a month to spend.
Of course, you've got gasoline, and you have a date every now and then.
You could go through that money in football season.
45 bucks or so, if you had a date of it, you had a pretty good weekend.
Do you remember, in general, what it cost?
What was the total bill of going to A&M?
No.
A year or a semester?
Oh, the cost of going to school?
I remember the first semester was five, six hundred dollars.
That was room, board, tuition.
and probably another 40 or 50 for books.
For some reason, a second semester was a little bit less.
Early 500s, high fours, something like that.
Relatively, it was probably equal to what it is now.
Maybe not, but that was a lot of money to me.
Did you have other jobs before the Aggieland on the campus?
No, sir.
Other job that I did have, though I was a junior and I worked for a professor grading papers.
And that paid, it would depend on the time I put in, but he was fair with me.
What about in the summer, did you have any special jobs?
Well I came home in the summer and I went to work, the first summer I went to work for Sun Oil Company down in Winnie, Texas, just south of Beaumont, between Beaumont and the coast.
And that was a great job.
They had a program where they hired sons of employees.
A few boys were in college.
My dad didn't work for them, but I had cut the grass of one of the vice presidents or son.
And he told me, he said, if you want a job next time, I'll get you a good job in the oil field.
I said, I sure would.
So I reached him in the spring of our fish year, and I went to work for $2.83 an hour.
Which was good money.
Good money, and this was the summer of 68.
That was a great job.
Went back to A&M in the fall.
The next year, for some reason, I don't remember why that job wasn't available, but I went to work for a company called Great Lakes Carbon down in Port Arthur.
We actually shoveled carbon and coke out of railroad cars.
Really nasty job.
The following year we went to summer camp at Fort Sill, so anyway.
But they were good jobs.
I was always lucky I worked with good people.
What role did the MSC play in campus life as you knew it?
Well the MSC was the meeting place or the campus living room or whatever we called it in those days.
The MSC as it is now, that's where your P.O.
box was.
It wasn't unusual to go check your P.O.
box two or three times a day and find that there was still nothing in there.
But that was the meeting place, everybody meeting in the coffee shop at the MSC.
Do you remember anybody not respecting the hats off policy?
No.
I don't either.
I saw a youngster yesterday who was obviously a campus visitor, looked like he might be a junior in high school, and he walked in and
and there was a little girl with him and she kind of elbowed me and he took his cap off as quick as could be.
Yeah, I've never seen that.
Do you remember any important event where you had a date or family or something, anything that happened in the MSC that was special for you during your four years?
Yeah, yes sir.
Our Aggieland or our student publications banquet up there each year.
And student publications encompass the Aggieland, the Battalion.
What else?
I guess that was it, the Battalion and the Aggieland in those days.
And my girlfriend, who's now my wife, was up for that.
And I was the editor, so I was at the head table.
And I had to get up and talk and introduce my people and give a short talk.
I was never very good at that.
I had never done much of it, so I rehearsed the heck out of that.
And, of course, the food was wonderful, just like it is now.
You go to the president's dinner before a ball game, and anything in the world, it's first class.
And it was.
Very, very nice.
It was a nice event.
Let's see, YMCA, did that play any part in you?
No, not really.
I went over there to borrow some money every now and then.
You know, they had the student loan thing.
I told you a while ago I didn't have any financial problems, and I really didn't, but every now and then you need $20 towards the end of the month.
And go over there and get $20.
What was it?
Was there an interest rate?
Yeah, but it was almost nothing.
Did you ever borrow any money from Old Army Lou?
No, sir, never did.
Did any of your friends?
Not that I know of.
Did that happen?
Oh, yes.
Oh, did it?
Oh, yes, yes.
No, I didn't know.
And he, until his dying day, he said I never lost him, that almost every student paid me back.
I bet that's true.
Guyon Hall.
What we saw, I've never been licked at Guyon Hall, and honestly, I don't remember what year it was.
I think we were fish.
But Guyon Hall was torn down our senior year.
I remember going in there to see, never been licked, you hear all about this.
Did that movie make any impression on you?
I guess it did.
I thought it was kind of corny.
But there were some big name stars in that thing.
Let's see, do you remember any important campus visitors during your four years?
Any dignitaries that came?
Well, the ones I remember that really impressed me were at General Rudder's funeral.
Lyndon Johnson was there.
John Conley was there.
I don't remember who else, but those were two men I'd always had a lot of respect for.
And, of course, just being a student on campus, you don't know how, I don't want to say this, the president of the university, you don't realize he's involved in legislative affairs and he's involved in politics and all these things, all these people that he knows.
You learn that as you get along.
You went to that ceremony?
Did the ceremony itself make an impression on you?
Well it was in G. Raleigh, it was very impressive.
I was not an RV, of course the RVs were involved in it.
Yeah, it was something.
I certainly went to that.
Religious activities, did you participate in any religious?
Did you attend church or chapel or anything?
It kind of ran in spurts like everything else.
A couple of us would go to church there in Bryan or College Station, and we'd go to a few different places every now and then.
I hate to say it, unfortunately, it wasn't a big part of my campus life.
Let's see, G. Raleigh.
Describe sporting events in G. Raleigh.
Well, of course, we had the basketball games, and as a guy in the Corps, being a freshman or a...
sophomore, you could get out of CQ if you had a pass to go to the ball game.
That's probably why our grades weren't very good.
So we went to the basketball games and the things that, we had a lot of town halls in there.
They brought in some pretty big group names in those days.
Kenny Rogers, it was Kenny Rogers in the first edition.
I can't remember the names of the other groups there, but they were the popular groups around the country for the day, and they were normally on a Friday night before a football game, so your date would come up, and that was a big deal.
You'd get all dressed up for that thing, and you know, go in your uniform, and we thought we were, by the time you got juniors, you'd go to that, you thought you were stood on campus.
Did a good job.
Describe a basketball game atmosphere.
Well, it depended on it.
The band was always there.
Of course, G. Raleigh's not that big a place, you know.
And, you know, the Yale leaders were there.
Was it noisy?
It was noisy as it could be.
Very noisy.
That's the fun part about it.
And were we winning then?
You know, I hate to tell you, I don't really remember if we were winning or not.
I see.
Shelby was coached in yesterday.
I think we were doing okay.
It's now 25 after.
Should we quit?
We can go a few more minutes.
I've got my son working for us.
He started today.
He just finished his...
his first six weeks at A&M summer school when he's home for the rest of summer.
I'll have you meet him here in a minute.
He's going to go to lunch with you.
Let's see.
In terms of G. Raleigh, you went there for basketball games, for some concerts, commissioning.
Commissioning was there in graduation.
Describe commissioning as you recall it, for you.
Well, I guess we were lighthearted in those days.
It might be a little more solemn event today.
I'm trying to remember who our speaker was.
Was it Westmoreland?
I'm asking.
I don't know.
I don't remember for sure.
But it was a time we were looking forward to and hoping we weren't sent to Vietnam because that was a big issue in those days.
Our class, I'm escaping your question, our class barely dodged that Vietnam bullet.
We had a few people go, but not near the people from the class of, say, 66 through 70.
They got hit real hard over there.
But I do remember coming out, my mother pinned my bars on them, and you come out in your fisher there, you know, the first one that
That salutes you gets a buck.
Oh really?
So I got a dollar.
And I had kind of, I think I probably cheated.
I had kind of a favored fish.
He wasn't real sharp, but anyway he got the dollar.
Commencement?
Commencement was a big deal.
It was in G. Raleigh just like it was up until the last one in December.
My son graduated on that last one in December.
I remember it just like that.
It was kind of long.
Who attended?
How many students went?
What percentage of the students?
I don't know anybody that did not go to commencement.
I understand now that still it's that way.
Very few do not go to commencement.
In many colleges, they mail you a diploma.
That's it.
But everybody went.
As far as I know, A&M is one-of-a-kind outside the service academies, where everybody goes.
And everybody's well-behaved?
Was the speaker anybody significant, or do you remember?
I really don't remember.
I'm embarrassed to tell you, I really do not remember.
Well, but nobody goes to your commencement speakers.
I've been on that side of the fence.
Yeah, I don't remember.
I do remember the association president,
Had I not been looking at some stuff, the reason I wouldn't remember, but when we graduated, Mr. Appelt, Les Appelt, in Houston, was the president of the association.
And I remember, all I know is he was there and he gave a talk and couldn't tell you what they could say.
Which student organizations had the highest credibility, they were most...
Profile?
You mean?
That y'all respected most, admired most.
Well, I don't know.
I guess you'd call the Corps a student organization.
Well, other than the Corps.
Sindhats, band, student government, Yale leaders.
I would have to say probably the student government.
The student leaders were...
Who were those leaders when you were?
Well, when I was a freshman, the president of the student body was a guy named Geistwhite, Jerry Geistwhite.
Big, impressive fellow.
Senior, you know, all decked out in all his boots and everything.
He's actually a lawyer up in the Hill Country somewhere, I'm not sure where.
He's just a guy, he got up and talked and said, I like that guy, I'd like to be like that guy.
A couple of the guys that I knew were, well, one fellow, in fact his name's on that list, he was our vice president of our fish class.
When we were seniors, I'm bouncing around here, Kent Caperton was president of the student body.
He's gone on to be a pretty well-known, pretty active politician, I think he was a senator or
I know Kent very well.
I know Kent very, very well.
Nice fellow.
Did you all hold him in high regard?
I did.
I think we did.
Now he was not in the Corps.
That's right.
But Kent was just the kind of guy who could talk to folks and everybody liked him.
Were there any women who had been female who had important leadership roles yet?
Not that I remember.
There were not that many women on campus.
They were pretty much dependents.
We became, fall of 70 we were seniors and that year I do remember we had more women attending A&M.
But it wasn't anything like it is now.
If you could have had any student elected or appointed role on the campus other than being editor of the Aggieland, in terms of the prestige it carried, what would it have been?
Oh, I don't know.
I don't know.
What student body president the most, did that outrank corps commander you think in general?
Not in our minds.
Oh, okay.
Not if you were in the corps.
Okay.
All right, after that, being a yell leader, band commander, was there any kind of... Well, we always made fun of the band.
I mean, you know, nobody could make fun of them but us.
And, you know, we always made fun of the band, but we had some impressive corps commanders.
Who were they?
When I was a freshman, it was a guy named Lonnie Menz.
M-I-N-Z?
I believe that's right.
Okay.
When we were sophomores, Hector Gutierrez.
I know Hector today.
Good guy.
I know Hector well.
When we were juniors, we had a renegade.
We had a guy named Matt Carroll.
Matt went off and did some crazy things after he got out of school.
We were seniors, a guy named Van Taylor.
Van was from Temple.
I know Van well.
One of my roommates, a guy named Lee McFadden, was from Temple, and he was friends with Van.
I got to know Van pretty well.
Good guy, really good guy.
Do you know him?
Oh, yeah.
See, I'm on the Southwestern Belt Board.
Oh, are you?
And he's in charge of Kansas and Missouri Forest.
Right, yeah.
Good guy.
All right, Hector was the first...
non-Anglo corps commander.
Was he?
Why do you think he was selected as corps commander?
He was sharp.
You know, looking back, I don't know if there were politics in that selection or not.
I really don't know.
I'm too naive at the time to think about it.
Hector, very sharp, very sharp man.
I don't think there was politics.
I think he was selected solely on ability.
I don't think that there was any kind of tokenism at all.
I wouldn't think so.
Let's see.
We can roll on over there.
All right.
Let me see.
How did you go home, go back and forth from home while you were a student?
When I first got there, I didn't have a car, and I was able to get some
ride homes with buddies.
I did hitchhike once, got home as quick as had I driven.
What was the routine for hitchhiking?
Go out by the golf course with your Aggie bag and within a couple minutes you had a ride.
It was pretty simple, pretty easy to do.
Did you or anybody else you knew of ever have any unfortunate experience in hitchhiking?
No sir.
I haven't heard of any either.
I don't know of anybody that ever did.
All right, now you didn't get a ride straight to Port Natchez.
No, what we did was, the one and only time I did it, we got a ride straight to Houston.
So the boy let us out on the freeway somewhere in Houston.
In a couple minutes we got another ride to Beaumont, within three blocks of my uncle's house, and we walked there and got his car.
Good gracious.
That's what we did.
Let's see, now did you, as an Aggie, did you put your thumb up?
Yes, sir.
You did put, okay, so.
Was there another way?
No, I didn't know whether just standing there was enough.
Having all done it once, I don't remember exactly the drill.
We were in uniform and had our Aggie bags, and we were very lucky.
Surely you've heard the story that some people have wondered, why do Aggies make a hitchhiker sign at a football game?
Let's see.
When you were a freshman without a car, how did you get around then in Brazos County?
We had a couple of fish there in the outfit that had cars and we pretty much teamed up and go where we needed to go.
The main thing you needed a car for in those days was just getting your dry clean.
That was kind of a big deal.
Then at Thanksgiving I brought back my dad's old work truck.
I had a 53 Chevrolet.
half-ton pickup that I drove.
In fact, I drove it for the rest of the year.
I got a car that I saw.
Not many co-eds when you got there.
Very few.
What was life like in terms of getting a date, going to a movie, or anything like that?
Well, for me, it really didn't exist.
Football season, you could normally get a date from your girlfriend at home.
come up for the football weekend or the football game.
I never dated anybody in the area.
How did those girls from home, how did they get to College Station?
Various ways.
Usually two or three of them would come together.
One of them will have a car.
A couple of them would come up with their parents.
And where did they stay?
The ones I had dates with stayed at MSC.
Further down the road, when my wife and I started dating, she wasn't my wife then, she stayed at Ms.
Pinburton's house.
I guess you, did you know them?
Oh yes, yes.
Do you remember what the charge was?
Two dollars a night if I remember right.
And about how many might stay at the Penberthy's at one time?
I don't know, five or six or eight or something like that.
And they provided breakfast?
They provided coffee and a roll I think, or coffee and some sort of rolls for breakfast.
It was a heck of a deal.
And in those days, one, we couldn't afford a hotel.
Two, there weren't any there.
And most of the girls' mothers aren't one of them coming up to stay in a hotel anyway.
As far as you were aware, how were young women treated when they came to A&M for a weekend?
Very courteously.
I mean, it was ladies and gentlemen, pretty much.
I never heard of any incidents.
We were so glad to have ladies.
Did they still bring loads of Tessies?
No, I don't know what that is.
In earlier years, TWU girls would come one or two football weekends on the train or on the bus, and there would be moose pots and beast buckets.
You and your buddies would do a pot of money, and the one that got stuck with the worst blind date got the money.
I heard the story.
In fact, we had some moose pots on some court trips.
That was a terribly mean thing to do to some poor girl.
We did go to TWU.
We called it T.W.
Zoo.
They had a dance or something up there and Aggies called it the Pig Push.
Now we showed up for that thing before the TCU game when we were fish.
And I ran into a gal that I went to high school with.
And she was dating a guy that lived down the street from me.
And I just kind of barely remember all that stuff.
Yes ma'am?
No.
Let's see, we were talking about TWU.
Describe a court trip.
Well, in fact, the first court trip that we had was to the TCU game in Fort Worth in the fall of 67.
That's when we went to TWU.
We knew we were going to do it all.
So we went to a friend of mine's house in Dallas or one of our fish buddies house.
How did you get up there?
His car, he had a car, a couple of other guys had cars so we rode together.
We had the number varies depending on who you talk to.
We had somewhere between 18 and 25 fish staying in this guy's parent's house.
And it's something we still all talk about.
He's still a very good friend.
He's a very successful contractor in Arlington.
His mom kicked, I don't know how many pounds of bacon, but it was your typical deal.
We were sleeping everywhere.
You know, she sewed our buttons on and everything we'd screwed up.
That's the most memorable trip.
Alright, so you're there.
What did you all do on Friday night and Saturday and Saturday night?
Friday night, we just actually bummed around Dallas to some of his old homes.
My mother had a 64 Chevrolet Impala and for some reason she gave the keys to me.
She said you take my car and I'll go wherever you want, just be careful.
So I drove her car all weekend.
We followed each other because we couldn't all get in one car.
So we poked around Dallas I guess that night.
The next night, the next Saturday was the game.
I may have that background.
Now you said Dallas, but you said the trip was to Fort Worth.
We worked up in the ball game and then that night we had to dance.
We were all batching it, you know.
It was a bunch of guys.
What did you do on Saturday night?
The dance at TWU?
I think so.
I believe that's what it was.
Now how did you get this date?
Didn't have a date.
Oh, you didn't have a date.
I just ran into a gala.
Okay.
What kind of behavior was there at these dances?
Always, you know, always.
It wasn't rowdy, I'll say that.
We got into our court parties and that might be the first place a lot of people drank, to the court party.
And some of them couldn't handle it and those kind of things.
But I never saw anybody get out of line.
I never saw anybody have a fight.
You don't remember anybody getting arrested.
I don't.
Then you all came back when?
Sunday evening as late as possible.
All right.
And on a court trip were handles dropped pretty well?
I think so.
I don't really remember that, to tell you the truth.
What if somebody didn't go on the court trip?
You probably had to be in the hospital.
You had to have a good excuse.
I don't know anybody that didn't go.
I haven't heard of any stories.
I was wondering.
Let's see, now you started dating your wife-to-be while you were a student?
Yes, sir.
Do you remember, were there any special dates that now as you look back on that those really were... Well, we had a lot of good ones.
I met her in the fall of 69.
She lived and worked in Houston.
She was a cousin of my roommates, I guess.
date her fiance, soon to be fiance.
So I always had trouble getting dates.
My friend's cousin lined her up to come up for the weekend.
That's where we met, behind dorm three.
So it was a blind date?
Blind date, blind as it could be.
Everything hit off pretty well.
We'd been married for 27 years.
So did you think that she was kind of special quickly?
I guess I did, yeah.
Did you propose or anything while you were still at A&M?
No.
Okay, yeah.
Alright, let's jump forward now to boot dance, ring dance, anything like that.
Okay, well.
Describe those, where they were and what.
The boot dance was, was it held in?
It was held in Duncan.
Oh really?
Okay.
The boot dance was in Duncan.
I was with the same girl on both of them.
The dance was of course the night of following the final review, our junior year.
And then the ring dance of next year when they returned them.
And what did the young ladies wear?
Well they were formal, it was all formal stuff.
We were in our dress uniforms.
And the girls all wore formal dresses.
Bonfires while you were there.
Where were they and what were they like?
They were on Duncan Field.
They were behind Duncan Hall.
And probably maybe 8,000 or 10,000 people would be there.
Does that sound about right?
I bet so.
Sounds about right.
And then, you know, it got to where it was just too big, too many people, probably a fire hazard as well, so they moved it over a little bit.
But not during your time?
No.
Did you help?
What role did you play as a freshman?
Well, our outfit was what they called the stack outfit, and we worked mainly at the bonfire site.
I remember once or twice we went to the cut, and that was early on.
Maybe I didn't know what was going on when I was there, but it seems to me the bonfire, when we had it, went up a lot quicker.
And, you know, they seem to plan it now about the time the other one's cleaned up.
It's a year-round process.
And I'm sure there was some planning going on prior to that, but we never got hot and heavy on building the bonfire until after the rice game.
We played Rice on Saturday and we always played Texas the following Thursday.
In those next three or four days, that was pushed to finish the bonfire.
No incidents or accidents during your days?
Let's see.
Texas games.
Any Texas games that really stand out in your... Well, the first one, we beat them 10-7 in the fall of 1967.
We were down there on the field, excuse me, on the track.
ready to take the yellow leaders off, and we had a goal line stand to make my air stand up and out and think about it.
I saw you looking at your ring as you were saying that.
We beat them 10 to 7.
And then Dean Stallings went on to win against Alabama in the Cotton Bowl, and Barry Bryant carried him off the field.
So that was probably the most memorable.
We didn't beat Texas for the rest of them for the following three years that I was there.
Terry?
Yes.
Terry's going to be there.
Terry might be there in just a minute.
Did you go to any Silver Taps?
Oh yeah, all of them.
What was Silver Taps in meaning?
Well, it was very... What did it mean to you?
Well, the first one was kind of scary.
You know, everything's blacked out and we're freshmen and never been to one.
You're instructed early on what it is and don't talk on the way over, don't talk on the way back, don't talk until the sun comes up.
And we pretty much follow all of those.
all those rules.
It was especially emotional or meaningful when it was someone you knew.
And in those days the school wasn't that large.
If there was somebody in the Corps, you knew them.
And I knew a couple people that died when they were in school, mostly due to car accidents.
It's a very, it's an eerie feeling and a very fitting tribute.
Did you and your friends take it seriously?
Oh, sure did.